notes.md, before:

# Angular 17 Tutorial

## Basics of Angular
+ Angular is a javascript framework that implements a model-view-controller scheme
+ Angular is mostly used in enterprice software
+ It is the most complex modern MVC-framework
+ It uses typescript (A more strongly typed version of javascript)

### Typescript
+ See [](https://github.com/jweber94/Tutorials/tree/master/typescript/intro_project)

### Installation
+ With npm (Nodejs Package Manager)
  - Comes with a nodejs installation
  - `$ npm install -g @angular/cli`
  - Make sure you have nodejs v12.20 or newer installed
+ Start your angular project by createing a new folder and then type
  - `$ ng new my_angular_project`
  - This will ask you a few questions how you want your project to be structured. After it is finished, the angular project is created
    * Go to the folder to inspect this
### Basic Angular Project structure
+ Folder "node_modules":
  - nodejs packages that are needed for the project. Do not touch this folder! It will be managed by `npm` and `ng`
  - They should NOT be checked in into git, since npm installs all this dependencies if we say `ng build`
    * `ng build` creates a production build
+ `package.json`
  - Defines dependencies and scripts for the development as well as for the case if we want to roll it out
  - Scripts:
    * `ng serve`: Start the development server
    * `ng build`: Transpile project to a deployable version
+ `tsconfig.json`
  - Defines the typescript configuration
  - Settings for the transpiling process in case of the `ng build` execution
  - Here we could enable experimental decorators (if we write our own decorators!)
+ `src` Folder - Here comes the important part
  - `src/app`: Here are the ***components*** stored
    * By default, there is only the root component (called `app-route`)
  - In the source folder is an `index.html`, which has only the `<app-route>` html tag within its body, which is defined by the angular root  component 
+ Route component and basics of components:
  - We have a `.css` file for every component. Within this `.css` we can write CSS code to style out component. 
  - We do ***NOT*** need to say `<link rel="stylesheet" href="/path/to/component.css">`, since angular integrates this CSS file automatically to our component! (The stylesheet linking is done by angular in the backend/during `ng build`)
+ `app.component.ts`:
  - This is the main typescript file where the logic of our component is stored
  - Angular extensively uses classes and decorators!
    * We define a class and export it (export means, that we tell the javascript engine to make the class available in our complete project! - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15760462/why-does-typescript-use-the-keyword-export-to-make-classes-and-interfaces-publ for more details)
```
@Component({
  selector: 'app-route',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrl: ['./app.component.css'] // here we make the link to the css file so we do not need to include it to the .html file via the <link rel="stylesheet"> tag
})
export class AppComponent {
  title = "ToDoApp";
  // here comes our app-logic implementation
}
```
    * This class uses the Component decorator (= functionallity enhancer - a decorator defines a function that is executed whenever a class method is invoked. The parameters of the decorator can be defined by class members. See the typescript tutorial for details on decorators) 

+ An angular component is a concatination of a html template and some logic for the template
  - The logic is implemented within the `app.component.ts` (or more generally `name.component.ts`)
  - The HTML structure is defined by the `app.component.html`
  - To make the component visible to all angular components, we define the component code package with the `app.module.ts`
  - Components are defined by typescript decorators
    * Decorators are like base classes that could be enhanced by out code to implement additional functionallities
    * In the common case, we define a component by using the `Component` decorator from the `@angular/core` library
  - *The `selector` element of a component defines the custom html tag!* --> This can be used in the `./src/index.html` as our own custom HTML tag!
    * If we define more components (aka functionallities + custom html tag), we can use them in the app.component.html or other components to create more sorphisticated tags or websites
  - In the `app.module.ts`, we export a class (that is mainly defined by the `@NgModule` decorator), which contains our component code (i.e. of the AppComponent, we define `declarations: {AppComponent}`)
    * _AppComponent *must* exactly correspond to the exported class within the `app.component.ts` file!_
    * If new components are generated by the angular CLI, all component declarations get updated such that we can use it in the complete angular project!
    * If we add new libraries with `$ ng add` (e.g. ng-bootstrap), these libraries get automatically included to the `imports: [BrowserModule, NgbModule]` part of the `NgModule` Decoration within the `app.module.app`
    * The `bootstrap: [AppComponent]` of the `NgModule` decorator is used to tell the angular framework what it should use on bootstrapping (aka startup of the app)
+ `./src/main.ts`:
  - Here, the `app.module.ts` is included to make it run on startup of the web app! 
  - Used for the JIT Compilation (Just In Time)
  - In `platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule).catch()...`, the bootstrapping module will be defined (this is done by angular if you initialize everything with the angular CLI)
  - After the `$ ng build` is executed, the `index.html` got enhanced with (one of a lot) tags, where the `main.js` (which is generated from the `main.ts`) is included as a script at the end of the file (See developertools of your browser) 

## Example: CRUD app ToDo-List
+ Angular > version 2 gets installed by npm which is a part of nodejs
+ Since I work with angular 13, ng-bootstrap is not natively supported. We need to install it in the following way:
  - `$ npm update && npm install --save --legacy-peer-deps @ng-bootstrap/ng-bootstrap && ng add @ng-bootstrap/ng-bootstrap`
  - See https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69433250/install-ngbootstrap-error-could-not-resolve-dependency
  - After doing this, we need to rebuild the project to make the changes working properly (if you don't do this, you'll run into an compiler error)

## Javascript / Typescript Tipps:
+ Template Strings: 
  - Can be used like a bash string!
  - Defined by a backtick instead of a normal tick
  - Example: 
    * `console.log("Message: ${this.message}") // does not work, since we do not use backticks`
    * `console.log(`Message: ${this.message}`) // works`
      - Requirement: message is a variable (i.e. class member variable) 
+ Decorator names are written with a capital letter in front of its name
+ If your typescript code (independend of angular) does not compile while you programmed your own decorator, you need to incomment the line "experimental-decorators" in the `tsconfig.json` file.

Commit message:

Implement the first property bindings but with test data

notes.md, after:

# Angular 17 Tutorial

## Basics of Angular
+ Angular is a javascript framework that implements a model-view-controller scheme
+ Angular is mostly used in enterprice software
+ It is the most complex modern MVC-framework
+ It uses typescript (A more strongly typed version of javascript)

### Typescript
+ See [](https://github.com/jweber94/Tutorials/tree/master/typescript/intro_project)

### Installation
+ With npm (Nodejs Package Manager)
  - Comes with a nodejs installation
  - `$ npm install -g @angular/cli`
  - Make sure you have nodejs v12.20 or newer installed
+ Start your angular project by createing a new folder and then type
  - `$ ng new my_angular_project`
  - This will ask you a few questions how you want your project to be structured. After it is finished, the angular project is created
    * Go to the folder to inspect this
### Basic Angular Project structure
+ Folder "node_modules":
  - nodejs packages that are needed for the project. Do not touch this folder! It will be managed by `npm` and `ng`
  - They should NOT be checked in into git, since npm installs all this dependencies if we say `ng build`
    * `ng build` creates a production build
+ `package.json`
  - Defines dependencies and scripts for the development as well as for the case if we want to roll it out
  - Scripts:
    * `ng serve`: Start the development server
    * `ng build`: Transpile project to a deployable version
+ `tsconfig.json`
  - Defines the typescript configuration
  - Settings for the transpiling process in case of the `ng build` execution
  - Here we could enable experimental decorators (if we write our own decorators!)
+ `src` Folder - Here comes the important part
  - `src/app`: Here are the ***components*** stored
    * By default, there is only the root component (called `app-route`)
  - In the source folder is an `index.html`, which has only the `<app-route>` html tag within its body, which is defined by the angular root  component 
+ Route component and basics of components:
  - We have a `.css` file for every component. Within this `.css` we can write CSS code to style out component. 
  - We do ***NOT*** need to say `<link rel="stylesheet" href="/path/to/component.css">`, since angular integrates this CSS file automatically to our component! (The stylesheet linking is done by angular in the backend/during `ng build`)
+ `app.component.ts`:
  - This is the main typescript file where the logic of our component is stored
  - Angular extensively uses classes and decorators!
    * We define a class and export it (export means, that we tell the javascript engine to make the class available in our complete project! - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15760462/why-does-typescript-use-the-keyword-export-to-make-classes-and-interfaces-publ for more details)
```
@Component({
  selector: 'app-route',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrl: ['./app.component.css'] // here we make the link to the css file so we do not need to include it to the .html file via the <link rel="stylesheet"> tag
})
export class AppComponent {
  title = "ToDoApp";
  // here comes our app-logic implementation
}
```
    * This class uses the Component decorator (= functionallity enhancer - a decorator defines a function that is executed whenever a class method is invoked. The parameters of the decorator can be defined by class members. See the typescript tutorial for details on decorators) 

+ An angular component is a concatination of a html template and some logic for the template
  - The logic is implemented within the `app.component.ts` (or more generally `name.component.ts`)
  - The HTML structure is defined by the `app.component.html`
  - To make the component visible to all angular components, we define the component code package with the `app.module.ts`
  - Components are defined by typescript decorators
    * Decorators are like base classes that could be enhanced by out code to implement additional functionallities
    * In the common case, we define a component by using the `Component` decorator from the `@angular/core` library
  - *The `selector` element of a component defines the custom html tag!* --> This can be used in the `./src/index.html` as our own custom HTML tag!
    * If we define more components (aka functionallities + custom html tag), we can use them in the app.component.html or other components to create more sorphisticated tags or websites
  - In the `app.module.ts`, we export a class (that is mainly defined by the `@NgModule` decorator), which contains our component code (i.e. of the AppComponent, we define `declarations: {AppComponent}`)
    * _AppComponent *must* exactly correspond to the exported class within the `app.component.ts` file!_
    * If new components are generated by the angular CLI, all component declarations get updated such that we can use it in the complete angular project!
    * If we add new libraries with `$ ng add` (e.g. ng-bootstrap), these libraries get automatically included to the `imports: [BrowserModule, NgbModule]` part of the `NgModule` Decoration within the `app.module.app`
    * The `bootstrap: [AppComponent]` of the `NgModule` decorator is used to tell the angular framework what it should use on bootstrapping (aka startup of the app)
+ `./src/main.ts`:
  - Here, the `app.module.ts` is included to make it run on startup of the web app! 
  - Used for the JIT Compilation (Just In Time)
  - In `platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule).catch()...`, the bootstrapping module will be defined (this is done by angular if you initialize everything with the angular CLI)
  - After the `$ ng build` is executed, the `index.html` got enhanced with (one of a lot) tags, where the `main.js` (which is generated from the `main.ts`) is included as a script at the end of the file (See developertools of your browser)
+ In `./src/styles.css`, we can add project wide CSS styles!
  - If you add styles to the `app.component.css` (or other components), the styles are only applied to the individual component!
+ Angular components have completly independend scopes from each other
  - The do not know any variables, classes or class members of each other
  - The linking has to be done manually
  - ***To make one or two way binding of html tag attributes, we need to use the `@Input() membervar = {string_test: '', bool_test=false}` Decorator!***
    + The `()` after the decorator name means, that it is executed
    + _Now, angular knows, that we want to hand over the class member variale membervar by the html tag from outside the component!_
    + To compile the code, you might need to import the Input decorator by adding `Input` to `import { Component, OnInit, Input } from '@angular/core';` of the importing component
  - ***To hand over the parameters from outside the component, we need to do "Property Binding"! This is done by square brackets***
    - Example: `<app-todo [todo_data]="{todo_key: 'testing', todo_status: false}"></app-todo>`
      * You can also hand over data from the typescript file of the parental component, if it has the correct datastructure! 
+ Angular directives:
  - A directive is a build in functiontionallity that can be applied to html tags
    * Examples: `*ngrepeat`, `*ngfor`, ...
    * Directives are divided into structural and attributal directives

## Example: CRUD app ToDo-List
+ Angular > version 2 gets installed by npm which is a part of nodejs
+ Since I work with angular 13, ng-bootstrap is not natively supported. We need to install it in the following way:
  - `$ npm update && npm install --save --legacy-peer-deps @ng-bootstrap/ng-bootstrap && ng add @ng-bootstrap/ng-bootstrap`
  - See https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69433250/install-ngbootstrap-error-could-not-resolve-dependency
  - After doing this, we need to rebuild the project to make the changes working properly (if you don't do this, you'll run into an compiler error)
    * ***CAUTION:*** After we installed a new package with npm, we need to do a development server hard reset (i.e. we need to stop and restart the dev server with ctrl+c and then start the server again with `$ ng serve`)
+ If we create new components with `$ ng generate component <name>`, a new folder will be created under the `/src/app/<name>` folder.
  - The `*.spec.ts` file is only for testing (aka unit testing)

# ToDo App
+ Create a new angular component (additionally to the root component)
  - `$ ng generate component todo`


## Javascript / Typescript Tipps:
+ Template Strings: 
  - Can be used like a bash string!
  - Defined by a backtick instead of a normal tick
  - Example: 
    * `console.log("Message: ${this.message}") // does not work, since we do not use backticks`
    * `console.log(`Message: ${this.message}`) // works`
      - Requirement: message is a variable (i.e. class member variable) 
+ Decorator names are written with a capital letter in front of its name
+ If your typescript code (independend of angular) does not compile while you programmed your own decorator, you need to incomment the line "experimental-decorators" in the `tsconfig.json` file.
+ Borders of `<div>` tags could be used to generate borders around parts of a container div (like the top section of the todo list)
